# 1.Introduction
Broadly speaking, negation “relates an expression e to another expression with a meaning that is in some way opposed to the meaning of e” (Horn and Wansing 2017). As described by Lawler (2010), cognitively, negation“involves some comparison between a real situation lacking some particular element and an imaginal situation that does not lack it.”
# 2.Experimental materials
Figure.1
We designed experimental materials in Maya 2022 software, from building models to generating animations. Each animated movie has 730 frames, and our playback speed is 24 frames per second, so the total duration of each movie is 30.42 seconds. The scene includes a table and there is a wooden basket beside the table(Figure. 1a). For experimental purposes, we have designed three types of cube boxes(Figure. 1b): the six sides of the green box are opaque, that is, no objects can be seen in the box from any angle; One of the sides of the blue box is transparent, when this transparent side faces to the agent or subject, they can see whether there is an object in the box and what the object looks like through this side. However, since the agent and the participant are face to face, in a scene, the transparent side can only be seen by one of them;Two sides of the red box are transparent, and these two sides are facing each other, so the subject and the agent can see whether there are objects in the box and what the objects look like at the same time.The appearance of each type of box after being loaded into the object is shown in Figure. 1c. Each box has a top lid, which can be opened, and objects can be put into the box after the lid is opened.

There will be 3 objects in each movie, which means that the 3 objects are a set. Initially they are placed in a wooden basket, and then two of the three will go into two boxes on the table. In the experiment, we collected a total of 42 objects, and randomly numbered the objects (1-42). Every 3 numbered adjacent objects were used as a set, resulting in a total of 42 sets. The number represents our initial assumption that the agent’s preference of each object. The smaller the number of the object, the higher the agent's preference for it. For example, for the 3 objects numbered 1, 2, and 3, we default that the agent prefers object 1 the most, secondly prefers object 2, and least prefers object 3.

At the beginning of the movie, the agent enters the scene from the left side of the screen, stops when she walks from left to right to the middle behind the table, and then turns to face the participants. Immediately afterwards, the agent squatted until his sight was on the same level as the two boxes on the desktop, and turned his head to the left and right to observe the two boxes, both boxes were continuously observed for 1 second. After the observation, the agent got up and continued to move to the right.When the agent walks to the middle position behind the wooden basket, he lowers his head and squats to observe the objects in the wooden basket. During the agent's observation, the three objects in the basket will constantly exchange positions. At the same time, the shielding cloth on the right side of the wooden basket gradually moves to the left until it completely covers the opening of the wooden basket. During the process that the masking cloth gradually covers the wooden basket, the three objects continue to exchange positions. During this period, the agent can see that there are 3 bulges on the masking cloth that exchange positions. Then, the agent got up and continued to move to the right until she left the scene, at the same time, the 3 bulges on the shielding cloth gradually stabilized at a certain position(Figure. 1d), indicating that the three objects in the basket still exist, but they have stopped exchanging positions.

After the agent completely faded out of the scene, the shielding cloth of the wooden basket was opened, revealing the 3 objects in the basket again. At the same time, the lids of the two boxes on the table were also opened, two of the three objects moved from the wooden basket to the two boxes respectively(Figure. 1e). Then the wooden baskets and boxes are covered again. At this time, there is only one bulge on the shielding cloth, which means that there is only one object in the wooden basket. After that, the agent returned to the scene from the right side of the screen. When the agent reached the middle position behind the wooden basket, she stopped and turned and looked down at the basket. At this time, the agent saw only one bulge on the shielding cloth, then she turned her head to the table, looked at the two boxes on the table, and put one hand on her chin in a thinking state, indicating that she already knew that two objects were transferred to the two boxes. After understanding all of this, the agent continued to move to the left, stopped again when she reached the middle position behind the table and turned around. In order to see the objects in the basket clearly, the agent squatted again until the line of sight was on the same level as the boxes, and observed separately two boxes on the left and right. If the side facing the agent's box is transparent, then she can see the objects in the box, if it is opaque, she can't see it. However, no matter whether the agent can see the objects in the box or not, she will get up again and stretch her hand to one of the boxes(Figure. 1f), the movie ends here.
# 3.Experiment design.
## 3.1 Experiment 1:
In Experiment 1, the scene seen by the participants and the agent was the same. In order to ensure that the scene seen by the participants and the agent is consistent, we choose these three combinations of boxes: red + red, green + green, red + green. 
......
## 3.2 Experiment 2:
......
## 3.2 Experiment 3:
......
# 4.Produce：
We tested the scoring results of the participants on the three objects in the "Preference" task through a 7-degree scale (1 means "least preference", 7 means "most preference"). During the experiment, the participants sat in front of the computer screen and adjusted to a comfortable posture that is convenient for using the mouse.Before the experiment starts, the screen will present instructions to inform the participants what they are about to see and the tasks they need to perform. After the participants have read the instruction and fully understood, they can press the “space bar” to enter the experiment program at any time.

In order for the participants to better understand the experiment process, we prepared a pre-familiar video. In this video, the boxes appearing in the experiment will be shown (the green box is opaque on six sides, and one side of the blue box is transparent，the red box has two face-to-face faces that are transparent),the appearance of the box after loading the object (the object can not be seen on the six sides of the green box, the object loaded into the box can be seen through the transparent surface of the blue box, and the loaded object can be seen through the two transparent surfaces of the red box). In the pre-familiar video, the participants can also see the agent’s behavior in the formal experiment and the final display pictures that determine the agent’s preference for each object. The experimenter will demonstrate the operation method and allow the subject to operate.The pre-familiar process stopped until the participants fully understood the experimental process and test tasks.
