---
title: Mentalizing or Submentalizing? A replication of Kovács et al.(2010) with extensions
---

Theory mind, or mind reading, refers participants' ability to infer others' mental states. Mental states cannot be directly observed, so they have to be indirectly inferred. Theory of mind, especially the performance as being measured by the "false-belief task" (Premack & Woodruff, 1978), is traditionally regarded as an advanced ability that is unique to human older than 4 years old (REF). Non-human primates and human children younger than 3 years lack such ability. New experimental techniques, however, tell a different story. Different theories have been put forward to explain this discrepancy. This paper intends to adjudicate between these theories with the paradigm pioneered by Kovács et al. (2010).

A typical false-belief task involves two agents such as Anne and Lilly, two containers such as a box and a basket, and an object such as a marble. First, when Lilly was still in the room Anne put the marble into the box. Second, after Anne left the room Lilly moved the marble from the box into the basket. Finally, Anne returned to the room and participants were asked to determine where Anne would go to look for her marble. Given this experimental setting, Anne's belief about the location of the marble was different from the actual location of the mable, or more precisely participants' belief about the location of the marble, i.e., Anne's has a false-belief about the location of the marble.If they understand this difference and know that an agent's behavior is guided by the agent's own belief, rather than by others' belief or the reality, participants answer would be the box. If participants' answer was the basket, it would suggest that participants could not attribute to other agent a belief that is different from their own.


Using this traditionally called explicit false-belief task, it was found that children younger than 4 years-old normally lack such ability (Callaghan et al., 2005; Liu, Wellman, Tardif, & Sabbagh, 2008; Perner, Leekam, & Wimmer, 1987; Wellman, Cross, & Watson, 2001; Wellman, Fang, Liu, Zhu, & Liu, 2006; Wimmer & Perner, 1983).


This is not the end of the story, however. This general conclusion that children younger than 4 years' old and non-human primates lack mental reading ability have recently challenged by several newly developed experimental paradigms.

One such paradigm was developed by Kovacs et al (2010).



Theory of Mind (ToM) is an important social cognitive ability of individuals，which has significant meanings to human interpersonal communication and our social life. The traditional view is that the ToM refers that human can understand the mental state of oneself and others (such as needs, beliefs, desires, intentions, feelings, knowledge, emotions, etc.) (Premack & Woodruff, 1978). 

The cross-cultural studies consistently suggest that 4 years old is the critical period for both eastern and western children to acquire ToM. Developmental transition in ToM has always been assessed using "false-belief tasks". (Kovács, 2010). In the typical Sally-Anne task, there are two agents (Sally and Anne), two containers (a basket and a box) and one object (marbles). In this task, children need to watch a scene where Sally puts an object in a box and then leaves the scene. While Sally left, Anne stays in the room and then she puts the object into a basket. In the end of the scene, Sally comes back. Children are then asked where Sally will look for the object when she reenters the room. In this experimental setting, children should choose a basket or a box. If children choose the basket where the object actually is, it means that he/she cannot distinguish reality and belief. While the correct answer (box) shows that children can predict the behavior of Sally by taking into account her (false) beliefs of where the object is (Wimmer & Perner, 1983). So this is the explicit "false-belief" task, which requires responding to a direct question with a verbal response. Based on this paradigm, lots of researches (Callaghan et al., 2005; Liu, Wellman, Tardif, & Sabbagh, 2008; Perner, Leekam, & Wimmer, 1987; Wellman, Cross, & Watson, 2001; Wellman, Fang, Liu, Zhu, & Liu, 2006; Wimmer & Perner, 1983) have shown that 3-year-old children would choose the box, while at the age of 4 or 5, children's choices were baskets, which were as same as adult's. Thus this suggests that children do not acquire the ToM until the age of 4, that is the watershed for ToM is about 4 years old. The ability of ToM is also an important indicator of children's normal development, because autistic children do not have this capability (Baron-Cohen, Leslie, & Frith, 1985; Senju, Southgate, White, & Frith, 2009). Meanwhile, the development of ToM is also affected by language, environment, culture and other factors.

​More recently, adapted versions called the spontaneous ToM task have been developed (e.g., Senju, Southgate, White, Frith, 2009; Kovács, Teglas, Endress, 2010; Schneider, Bayliss, Becker, Dux, 2011; Schneider, Slaughter, Dux, 2017), these studies showed that we will also represent other's beliefs even though we are not required to do so.

​In spontaneous ToM tasks, it has been represented others' beliefs using a smurf or a Buzz Lightyear as an agent (Kovács et al., 2010; Nijhof, Brass, Bardi, Wiersema, 2016; Bardi, Desmet, Nijhof, Wiersema, Brass, 2017a), although these comic figures are nonhuman agents. Participants perceive these agents as humans, this is because, though Buzz or smurf is not a real person, he has the body characteristics of a human. In contrast, some researches used an adapted version of a spontaneous ToM task (Lara Bardi, Charlotte Desmet, Marcel Brass 2017; Deschrijver, Bardi, Wiersema, Brass, 2016; Nijhof et al., 2016) and presented an agent which is absolutely dissimilar to human beings, that is, a dog. They expected that the belief of the dog would influence the participants' performance, resulting in a significant ToM index in this task, which means participants' behaviors are influences by the belief of nonhuman agent. However, the finding showed that we can not take the belief of dog into account, or to a less extent because it is clearly dissimilar from us. Here, the research conclude that the physical properties of the agent might be the critical factor in determining whether, and to which extent, other's beliefs influence our performance (Lara Bardi, Charlotte Desmet,Marcel Brass 2017).

​The influential study from Onishi and Baillargeon (2005) provided evidence that 15 month old infants already had some sensitivity for other people’s (false) beliefs, the concept of implicit false-belief task, was first carried out by Clements and Perner (1994). Since then there are three main types of implicit false-belief task: 1) violation of expectation FBT,  2) anticipatory looking FBT, 3） helping behavior FBT.

In recent years, with the introduction of new research paradigms and recording methods, the idea that children do not have ToM in their early childhood has been questioned. The subject with subjective initiative will predict what will happen next according to the gained experience in the process of interaction with the society (Clark, 2013), this capacity is shown that participants will first focus on the direction and purpose of the movement of object or subject (Schneider, Bayliss, Becker, & Dux, 2012). If the actual event is not consistent with the participant's prediction, then the novelty of the actual event will activate the orientation response of the subject, resulting in a longer period of attention and looking, namely the violation of expectation. Anticipatory looking paradigm and violation of expectation paradigm have been proved to be effective behavioral means to understand psychological activities, which is especially suitable for subjects with no language ability, such as infants and animals. 

​Numerous studies based on anticipatory looking have found that children can correctly track other's mental states up to the age of three (Clements & Perner, 1994; Garnham & Ruffman, 2001; He, Bolz, & Baillargeon, 2012; Meristo et al., 2012; Senju, Southgate, Snape, Leonard, & Csibra, 2011; Southgate, Senju, & Csibra, 2007; Surian & Geraci, 2012; Thoermer, Sodian, Vuori, Perst, & Kristen, 2012; Trauble, Marinovic, & Pauen, 2010). Children can produce predictive attention based on the belief of the behavior subject since their 2 years and 11 months (Clements & Perner, 1994), such as Anne-Sally paradigm and other variation of false belief paradigms (Surian & Geraci, 2012). A large number of studies based on non-human primates have found similar results in gorillas on predictive gaze tasks (Hayashi et al., 2020; Kano, Krupenye, Hirata, Tomonaga, & Call, 2019; Krupenye, Kano, Hirata, Call, & Tomasello, 2016). In addition, children (D. Buttelmann, Over, Carpenter, & Tomasello, 2014; F. Buttelmann, Suhrke, & Buttelmann, 2015; Carpenter, Call, & Tomasello, 2002; Knudsen & Liszkowski, 2012a, 2012b; Southgate, Chevallier, & Csibra, 2010) and even gorillas(D. Buttelmann, Buttelmann, Carpenter, Call, & Tomasello, 2017) can track the subject's belief state in explicit behavior if the traditional false belief paradigm is added with the interactivity of tasks.

​In conclusion, by changing the way the dependent variable was recorded in the traditional false belief, such as changing the children's oral responses to eye movements, or increasing the interactivity of the task, the conventional wisdom that non-human primates, children with autism, and children before the age of four are not capable of understanding false beliefs has been widely challenged. Why are children unable to perform traditional false belief tasks before the age of three but able to perform non-classical tasks? There are two completely different explanations.

​The traditional view amongst the nativists is that infants have an innate ToM module which enables early belief understanding, and the reason why children do not pass the traditional FBT till the age of 4 lies in the lack of development of other cognitive abilities (Baillargeon, Scott, & Bian, 2016; Baillargeon, Scott, & He, 2010; S. T. Baker, Leslie, Gallistel, & Hood, 2016; Carruthers, 2013; Helming, Strickland, & Jacob, 2014; Leslie, 2005; Schneider, Slaughter, & Dux, 2017; Scott, 2017a; Scott & Baillargeon, 2017).

The nativism can be further divided into pragmatic development account and processing-demands account. 

According to the form of pragmatic account, although children have the ability of false belief, they cannot understand the experimenter's requirements because of their own pragmatic understanding ability (Beattie, 1991; Helming et al., 2014; Jacob, 2016; Rubio-Fernandez & Geurts, 2013; Rubio-Fernández & Geurts, 2015; Surian & Leslie, 1999; Westra & Carruthers, 2017). 

From the processing-demands account's view, children can understand false beliefs and the test questions correctly, when they are asked to respond, however, they either lack the necessary processing resources to deal with the two belief states at the same time (Setoh, Scott, & Baillargeon, 2016), or lack the necessary ability to restrain their own beliefs (Leslie, Friedman, & German, 2004; Wang & Leslie, 2016), which makes children unable to access the false belief states of the subject.

​A similar distinction was found within the empiricist camp. They holds the opinion that children are incapable of false belief understanding before the age of three. The defining feature of the empiricists is the view that there is a development in children’s understanding of beliefs, usually in terms of a developing concept of belief, executive function and an internal cognitive development or reorganization, which triggers the false belief understanding (Butterfill & Apperly, 2013; Callaghan et al., 2005; De Bruin & Newen, 2012; Gopnik & Astington, 1988; Heyes, 2014a, 2014b, 2017; Liu et al., 2008; Low, Apperly, Butterfill, & Rakoczy, 2016; Perner et al., 1987; Perner & Roessler, 2012; Ruffman, 2014; Sodian, 2011; Wellman et al., 2001, 2006; Wimmer & Perner, 1983). The positive outcomes in non-traditional tasks before age three reflected not the children's false belief understanding but other abilities. The empiricism can be further divided into non-mental state account and two systems account. 

The non-mental state account holds that infants cannot represent the mental states of others and that children's success in non-traditional tasks stems from some lower-level cognitive processes. For example, some researchers have suggested that infants' longer looking during non-traditional tasks reflects perceptual novelty (Heyes, 2014a; Perner & Ruffman, 2005; Phillips et al., 2015; Ruffman & Perner, 2005). In the familiarization stage, infants only encode the co-occurrence relationship between the subject and related objects in the situation, and even the more basic perceptual features of the situation setting, such as color, shape and movement. During the test phase, if the new situation deviated from the baby's original coding, it caused the baby to stare longer. 

The two systems accounts think that people's ability to understand ToM can be divided into two systems (Apperly, 2012; Apperly & Butterfill, 2009; Butterfill & Apperly, 2013; De Bruin & Newen, 2012; Low et al., 2016; Perner & Roessler, 2012; Saxe, Carey, & Kanwisher, 2004; Sodian, 2011; Tomasello & Rakoczy, 2003). The first is an early development of cognitively effective "low-level" automated processing, the second system is a later, flexible "high level" selective processing that is relatively slow and is associated with executive function and language ability. Thus, the traditional false beliefs task measures a relatively advanced level of false belief understanding that humans only master after age four, instead, non-traditional tasks focus on the system that human have mastered early in a child's development, as opposed to systems that form after the age of four.

​For the purposes of this paper, we suggest that implicit ToM based on the false-belief tasks paradigm does not exclude one of the following alternative explanations: Some external factors led to the change of attention time, which showed that individuals had different response times to the sub-conditions with inconsistent co-occurrence probability under the same belief condition. This process does not involve the belief level of implicit ToM, but is related to some external factors (Heyes, 2014a; Perner & Ruffman, 2005; Phillips et al., 2015; Ruffman & Perner, 2005).

​Based on the above analysis, if the original experiment involved belief formation of implicit ToM, then (1) under the same belief condition, when the co-occurrence relationship between object and animal is inconsistent, the response time of participants will be the same;(2) When the agent is replaced by an arrow with no subjective initiative, the arrow should not lead to a similar effect to the agent, that is, a faster response time to the target stimulus. However, (3) when the co-occurrence relationship between objects and agents is inconsistent under the condition of the same belief, the subjects' responses are obviously inconsistent.(4) When the agent is replaced by an arrow, different results are also obtained during the reaction, it can be indicated that the original experimental results (Lara Bardi 2018) are not necessarily caused by the belief state.

​We will design two experiments to verify the rationality of the above analysis: The first experiment adopted an adapted paradigm of the original experiment (Kovac 2010; Lara Bardi 2018). Ten animals and objects were selected and divided into three sub-conditions respectively under the P-A - and P+A+ conditions.In experiment 2, a non-social attentional pointing condition was added, namely, the arrow. The position, size and direction of the arrow were similar to the position, size and eye gaze direction of the agent.

​Another important question is if we can considerate the belief of all other living creatures spontaneously. In other words, are our behaviors influenced automatically by the beliefs of all others or is this influence just restricted to some certain others, i.e., those who are more similar to human? Decades of researches (Tsai & Brass, 2007; Wiese, Wykowska, Zwickel, Müller, 2012; Müller et al., 2011; Wiese et al., 2012) suggested that we are strongly influenced by other nonhuman agents, based on bottom-up influences or top down characteristics. The more we see an agent as human-like, the more this agent influences our behavior (Lara Bardi, Charlotte Desmet, Marcel Brass 2017).